
1. Engage like a consultant 

Don’t talk like a candidate; talk like a consultant. I knew that Google’s data scientist interviewers wanted to see how I approach an ambiguous case problem in a structured manner. 

So, I used this sequence: (1) Ask clarifying questions (2) Frame the business problem (3) Brainstorm a solution (4) Relate the technical solution to the business impact.

2. Get 8 hours of sleep, (or take a double espresso shot)

The brain can’t function if you don’t sleep. To be frank, I couldn’t sleep at all! I was nervous the night before the interview. So, the morning I took a double espresso shot. Boy -- did I feel jittery during the five-hour interview! But, at least I didn’t fall asleep in front of the interviewers.

3. Brush-up on statistics fundamentals 

You don’t need to know advanced topics that only Ph.D. knows. The statistics round is based on topics you learned in undergraduate stats courses. 

Review the basics: central tendency, Simpson’s Paradox, sampling, regression analysis, statistical tests (e.g. T-Test, Z-Test, ANOVA, chi-squared test, variance test), distributions (e.g. Bernoulli, binomial, geometric, normal, exponential, Poisson).

4. Practice ML case problems

I was given a Chrome book and asked to solve an ML case problem with a presentation in 60-minutes. Given that I had worked in a startup, I was comfortable solving an ML case on the fly. For more practice, I downloaded sample datasets from Kaggle and practiced creating modeling solutions.

Brush up on common functions in Pandas, Sklearn, and Numpy. You will be allowed to search functions during an interview. But, retaining the common functions can save time.

5. Practice SQL drills daily

I worked through SQL problems daily - solving 5 to 7 problems. I tracked my solution time on a spreadsheet, aiming for 5 minutes. This practice style helped me see progress in my solution speed.

6. Demonstrate Googleyness

The entire interview panel is assessing your Googleyness, which basically means “Do you fit in Google’s working culture?” Do you do the right thing? Do you strive for excellence?  Do you value users and colleagues? Are you humble? 

7. Build rapport with the Interviewers

Connect with an interviewer by viewing an interview as a conversation, not a Q&A. This was the Jedi mind-trick I used to stay relaxed. I didn’t see an interviewer as a “Simon Cowell,” rather I saw them as a friend I’ve known for some time, and we are just having a coffee chat, bouncing ideas on a whiteboard. 
